Governance prerequisites (#235)
vegaprotocol/documentation: docs/tutorials/proposals/update-market-proposal.md

- governance
- updateMarket
---
import NetworkParameter from '@site/src/components/NetworkParameter';
import JSONInstructions from './_json-instructions.md';
import TerminalInstructions from './_terminal-instructions.md';
import UpdateMarketAnnotated from './_generated-proposals/_updateMarket_annotated.md';
import UpdateMarketJSON from './_generated-proposals/_updateMarket_json.md';
import UpdateMarketCMD from './_generated-proposals/_updateMarket_cmd.md';
import UpdateMarketWin from './_generated-proposals/_updateMarket_win.md';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Make changes to an existing market.

## Requirements

You will need:

- A connected [Vega wallet](/docs/tools/vega-wallet/index.md), with your wallet name and public key to hand

> - A minimum of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.minProposerBalance" hideName={true} suffix="token"/> associated with that public key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A minimum of whichever is larger, associated with that public key: <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.minProposerBalance" hideName={true} suffix="tokens"/> or <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="spam.protection.proposal.min.tokens" hideName={true} suffix="tokens"/>
```

> - A minimum equity-like share of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.minProposerEquityLikeShare" hideName={true} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A minimum equity-like share in the market of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.minProposerEquityLikeShare" hideName={true} />
```

- Familiarity with [governance on Vega](../../concepts/vega-protocol.md#governance), particularly off-chain activities

## Anatomy of an update market proposal

> The `updateMarket` proposal is similar to the `newMarket` proposal, but most fields are not required. See the descriptions in the [new market proposal tutorial](new-market-proposal.md#fields) for more on each field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `updateMarket` proposal requires the same fields as a `newMarket` proposal. See the descriptions in the [new market proposal tutorial](new-market-proposal.md#fields) for more on each field.
```

> You must include all existing parameters from the original `newMarket` proposal, even if they are not being changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the parameters you want to change, you must include all existing parameters from the original `newMarket` proposal, even if they are not being changed.
```

### Locked fields

The following fields are immutable and cannot be changed.

> - `marketId`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `market ID`
```

> - `decimalPlaces`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `decimal places`
```

> - `positionDecimalPlaces`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `position decimal places`
```

- `name`

> - `settlementAsset`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `settlement asset`
```

## Templates and submitting
In the tabs below you'll see an annotated example, which describes what each field is for, a JSON example that can be used to submit on the token dApp, and command line examples for different operating systems. **You'll need to replace the example data with the relevant details before submitting.**

<Tabs groupId="updateMarket">
  <TabItem value="annotated" label="Annotated example">
    <UpdateMarketAnnotated />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="json" label="Token dApp (JSON)">
		<JSONInstructions />
		<UpdateMarketJSON />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cmd" label="Command line (Linux / OSX)">
		<TerminalInstructions />
		<UpdateMarketCMD />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win" label="Command line (Windows)">
		<TerminalInstructions />
		<UpdateMarketWin />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Voting and enactment

> All proposals are voted on by the community. Community members need a minimum of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.minVoterBalance" suffix="tokens" hideName={true} /> to vote. Your proposal will need [participation](../../concepts/vega-protocol#how-the-outcome-is-calculated) of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.requiredParticipation" formatter="percent" hideName={true} /> and a majority of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.requiredMajority" formatter="percent" hideName={true} />, so having community support is essential. If successful, the proposal will be enacted at the time you specify in the `enactmentTimestamp` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All proposals are voted on by the community. To vote, community members need, at a minimum, the larger of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.minVoterBalance" suffix="tokens" hideName={true} /> or <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="spam.protection.voting.min.tokens" suffix="tokens" hideName={true} associated to their Vega key. 

Your proposal will need [participation](../../concepts/vega-protocol#how-the-outcome-is-calculated) of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.requiredParticipation" formatter="percent" hideName={true} /> and a majority of <NetworkParameter frontMatter={frontMatter} param="governance.proposal.updateMarket.requiredMajority" formatter="percent" hideName={true} />, so having community support is essential. If successful, the proposal will be enacted at the time you specify in the `enactmentTimestamp` field.
```
